findaway password
https://my.findawayvoices.com/signup

Project Minnesota is a place for volunteer citizen reporters, writers, and researchers from all 87 counties to share updates and relevant information related to improving and reforming elections so that they can be decentralized, trustworthy, and transparent. 

Project Minnesota grew out of Midwest Seeds, a Substack newsletter with over 1,000 readers per post—with over 100 updates written in the last calendar year—when it became apparent that there was very little news coverage for critical election data and stories. 

However, the newsletter was written and managed by one writer, and one writer is not enough. And if news agencies cannot produce reliable updates on elections, then why wouldn't the citizens band together to do so themselves? After all, newsworthy stories almost daily are developing all across the state driven by patient and persistent citizen action. For instance, isn't it odd that cast vote records are starting to trickle out even after cast vote record ballot images were banned? And isn't it interesting that chatter has picked up in city councils and county commissions after the passage of the machine mandate? And yet this won't be reported unless the citizens of Minnesota do the work to get the word out. But that has been difficult until now.

As a proof of concept, Anoka County has already uploaded the videos from 60 speeches (and corresponding memos) given during county commissioner meetings throughout 2023 focused on reforming the county's elections. See https://projectminnesota.com/anoka

We are seeking a $50 donation from just 60 Minnesota patriots who want to reclaim Minnesota's elections for We the People. This $3,000 will cover the first year's expenses. Donations from this select group will serve to cover the costs of ghost.io, a digital publishing platform service powering ProjectMinnesota.com which allows for staff users to create, edit, and publish posts and pages which then are automatically delivered by email to free and paid subscribers of ProjectMinnesota.com.

This backing enables volunteer citizen reporters, writers, and researchers from across Minnesota to help their neighbors become instantly aware of the latest findings by having a venue to report election news and work being done in their counties to decentralize elections. Also because of this support, Project Minnesota can remain ad-free and completely free for subscribers.

By being informed about local happenings, an increasing number of citizens will then be able to make informed decisions and take effective actions in realizing lasting election reforms. 

To donate, simply go to http://projectminnesota.com, then click "Join Project Minnesota" or "Subscribe" and select the annual subscription for $50.

If we reach the $3,000 goal an audio podcast will also be developed providing a weekly recap of election reform stories statewide.


donation message:
Thank you for participating in your civic duty to promote an educated electorate. 

These funds will be put to immediate use to cover the costs of expanding the number of staff users on the ghost.io account for ProjectMinnesota.com

If you are interested in joining Project Minnesota as a staff user to represent your county, please contact Erik at erikvanmechelen@proton.me. 

Reminder: If we reach the $3,000 goal an audio podcast will also be developed providing a weekly recap election reform stories statewide. So please share with someone who wants to be a part of the change they seek. 






new story - 

It's time to bring transparency and ownership to our elections again.

Hand counting is a great way to increase transparency in the tabulation component of our election ecosystem. Do you want to be a part of not only learning and developing the latest and greatest hand tally approaches, but also to teach what you discover to others? 

Rick Weible, Director of the U.S. Council for Accurate and Secure Elections (USCASE) has already conducted 3 hand count studies in South Dakota and Minnesota, with more to come. With your financial support, for just one example, thousands of Minnesotans from all 87 counties (and all 4,110 precincts) will learn to tally votes manually, preparing them to be educated advocates. But this doesn't have to be limited to South Dakota or Minnesota. This is all about every county owning its elections once again. 

Speaking of taking ownership... A family from a county that was successfully able to do a hand count in the 2022 election stepped up financially to help get the rest of the country setup for hand counts because they want the rest of the country to feel connected to the election like they do now. Upfront costs were covered for 10,000 ballots purchased from ES&S and 3,000 are already printed using ballot images from Dodge County, Wisconsin.

Now, it only costs about $200 to cover costs for a single hand count study event in your area! This includes samples of error ballots and other machine-related tallying issues that demonstrate the value of ballot images and cast vote records.

Here's some feedback from a participant in the recent Minnesota study: 
- Surprised and impressed by how simple and accurate hand counting is.
- Mock run was very transparent; we could literally see who was winning.
- We had 50 people for this mock election; we can get plenty of volunteers
for a real one.
- The biggest takeaway was it made us feel like…the people own our
elections again.

Together we can make American elections home-grown, trustworthy, and beyond reproach. 

To donate $200 today for a Hand County Study Event in your area, go to: https://givebutter.com/6ccc1k

To learn more and stay involved, visit https://uscase.org




Thank you! 

Your donation will offset the very reasonable cost of creating realistic mock elections as citizens across the Midwest work together to develop, learn, and improve current hand count and hand tally methodologies.

We'll be in touch very soon about organizing the details of your event, including tips on how to prepare and how to get others excited to learn in your county. 

In the meantime, to learn more and stay involved, visit https://uscase.org





Title

Hand Count Studies in the Midwest


Story

Hand counting is a great way to increase transparency in the tabulation component of our election ecosystem. Do you want to be a part of not only learning and developing the latest and greatest hand tally approaches, but also to teach what you discover to others? Rick Weible of the U.S. Council for Accurate and Secure Elections (USCASE) has already conducted *3 hand count studies in South Dakota and Minnesota, with more to come. With your financial support, thousands of Minnesotans from all 87 counties (and all 4,110 precincts) will learn to tally votes manually, preparing them to be educated advocates.

*For previous hand count studies, ballot images from Dodge County, Wisconsin were printed onto ballot paper purchased from ES&S. 



Donation message:

Thank you! 

Your donation will offset costs of creating realistic mock elections as Minnesotans work together to develop, learn, and improve current hand count and hand tally methodologies.

To learn more and stay involved, visit https://uscase.org



Project Minnesota is a place for volunteer citizen reporters, writers, and researchers from all 87 counties to share updates and relevant information related to improving and reforming elections so that they can be decentralized, trustworthy, and transparent. 

Project Minnesota grew out of Midwest Seeds, a Substack newsletter with over 1,000 readers per post—with over 100 updates written in the last calendar year—when it became apparent that there was very little news coverage for critical election data and stories. 

However, the newsletter was written and managed by one writer, and one writer is not enough. And if news agencies cannot produce reliable updates, then why wouldn't the citizens band together to do so themselves? After all, newsworthy stories almost daily are developing all across the state driven by patient and persistent citizen action. For instance, isn't it odd that cast vote records are starting to trickle out even after cast vote record ballot images were banned? And isn't it interesting that chatter has picked up in city councils and county commissions after the passage of the machine mandate? And yet this won't be reported unless the citizens of Minnesota do the work to get the word out. But that has been difficult until now.

As a proof of concept, Anoka County has already uploaded the videos from 60 speeches (and corresponding memos) given during county commissioner meetings throughout 2023 focused on reforming the county's elections. See https://projectminnesota.com/anoka

We are seeking a $50 donation from just 60 Minnesota patriots who want to reclaim Minnesota's elections for We the People. This $3,000 will cover the first year's expenses. Donations from this select group will serve to cover the costs of ghost.io, a digital publishing platform service powering ProjectMinnesota.com which allows for staff users to create, edit, and publish posts and pages which then are automatically delivered by email to free and paid subscribers of ProjectMinnesota.com.

This backing enables volunteer citizen reporters, writers, and researchers from across Minnesota to help their neighbors become instantly aware of the latest findings by having a venue to report election news and work being done in their counties to decentralize elections. Also because of this support, Project Minnesota can remain ad-free and completely free for subscribers.

By being informed about local happenings, an increasing number of citizens will then be able to make informed decisions and take effective actions in realizing lasting election reforms. 