
June 30, 2023

Mike Dittrich

Mankato MN

 

Mr. Dittrich,

 

Thank you for your questions. Your email is also copied below for your reference.

 

We don’t necessarily have ‘records’ in the sense of memos, but there is the state law on elections directing these matters, which you can access at: https://www.revisor.mn.gov/statutes/part/ELECTIONS as well as the various administrative guides, which you can access at: https://www.sos.state.mn.us/election-administration-campaigns/election-administration/election-guides/, particularly the County Administration  and City Election Guides.

 

However, I can answer your questions:

 

    The data from the optical scanners is collected by city and county election administrators and is aggregated and reported to county canvassing boards, which will be meeting primarily next week;
    The data is sent or brought by election judges to the city or county election administration office, and results go ultimately to the county;
    Unofficial data is sent by modem in some counties on election night to speed unofficial reporting. The official report is the summary statement that is printed in the polling place, signed by the election judges, and submitted to the county offices, along with the USB stick that recorded the data on which the summary statements are based. The USB sticks and summary statements are physically brought by election judges to the county election office, which has secure custody of all of that data , in order to prepare the county canvassing board report.
    The county and city are the possessors of the source data and can access them. Physical data such as the ballots and other materials are also returned to the city and county election administrators’ offices. I should note here, even though you may not have asked it, that many Minnesota counties do NOT have cast vote record data, or have very incomplete data for write-in ballots only. Also, the Office of the Secretary of State has NONE of this data about which you are asking, except to the extent that the county reports to the Election Reporting System, the unofficial results that you can see on our website at: https://electionresults.sos.state.mn.us/20221108 and then the official results that result from the county canvassing board reports and which are then aggregated into the State Canvassing Board report. For an example of the State Canvassing Board report from a prior year, see: https://officialdocuments.sos.state.mn.us/Document/Details/131848. Also, the counties will be conducting the post-election audit required by law in the next several weeks.

 

I hope this information is useful.

 

 

 

Bibi Black
General Counsel

Pronouns: she, her, hers
Office of Minnesota Secretary of State, Steve Simon
180 State Office Building, 100 Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd.
St. Paul, MN 55155
Phone:  651-201-1326
Website: www.sos.mn.gov