{sample: true}
# Freedom of Information

*"Money is a constraint. Time is a constraint. Expertise is a constraint. Emotional stamina is a constraint. Reopening a question — tracing a chain of authority, reconciling contradictory records, holding an institution to its own rules — requires resources most citizens simply do not have. So disputes often terminate early, not because the citizen is persuaded, but because they are exhausted..."*

— Martin Geddes

OR Quote from Patrick Colbeck on the Video evidence, that he spent $2,500 to get, and 4 years

https://letsfixstuff.org/2024/05/exposed-detroit-election-night-reporting-process/


***

The current system does not immediately show the public that the rules are being followed. For just one example, consider that, while you are given an ‘I voted’ sticker, there is no confirmation that the computer tabulator that just took your ballot has 1) properly scanned a ballot image, or 2) interpreted the ovals you filled in accurately, or 3) saved the ballot image on the tabulator itself or any removable media (like a thumb drive). Neither can any of the election judges (poll workers) verify any of these three for you. Actually, there is currently no process existing that would demonstrate this to you. If the process cannot verify even one voter’s selections, how can it verify the aggregate? 

Instead of immediate gratification, which, I think, for elections, is a worthy aim, a voter who wants to learn about aspects of the Election System is on balance made to wait quite a while. 
(^ Expand on what is meant here…) 

For instance, a simple request of the voter file (the voter rolls or voter histories) usually takes a matter of days to be delivered. In 2022, if one wanted the ballot images or cast vote record reports (sometimes call ballot review reports for ES&S systems), one was promptly turned away, even though these are essential components of an audit of the computer tabulators themselves—if there are no ballot images, from which the tabulator immediatly interprets the ovals to add to its running tallies, then there is actually no proof at all that the computer scanners even performed to their most basic function, which is to tabulate votes. Only one county (Fillmore) managed to produce its cast vote record report for the 2020 general election. Only one county (Chisago) did the same for the 2022 primary election, although this was done after it was admitted the county had committed (perhaps unknowingly) a federal violation by allowing their vendor, Hart Intercivic to, during a software update, archive the 2020 election in advance of the 22-month data retention period. 

(ANDY LOKKEN, precinct 4950, didn’t have ballots, had ordered dominion printers, did a closed-door review 3 days later and came up with the ballots?, or at least submitted to SOS that they did… never verified by any observers or participants.) 

More recent inquiries into new developments in computer technology have taken even longer for public access. (PUT STORY OF THE BALLOT PRINTERS KNOWINK NOW)

Riff on this using EXAMPLE FROM SIMON SENSORS w/ Electronic Poll Pads: 
https://newsletter.martingeddes.com/p/the-mother-of-all-ai-audits

“
AI changes the economics of attribution

Modern democracies already give citizens formal tools: freedom of information laws, complaint mechanisms, judicial review, consultation processes, public records. In theory, the architecture of accountability exists.
In practice, those tools are costly to use.

Money is a constraint. Time is a constraint. Expertise is a constraint. Emotional stamina is a constraint. Reopening a question — tracing a chain of authority, reconciling contradictory records, holding an institution to its own rules — requires resources most citizens simply do not have.
So disputes often terminate early, not because the citizen is persuaded, but because they are exhausted.
“
https://www.revisor.mn.gov/statutes/cite/13 
https://www.revisor.mn.gov/statutes/cite/13.15

Before going step by step through the Minnesota election system, I’d like to share by way of an example what it takes to gather data, records, and general information relating to the system through the normal records request process. 

It is true that most government data and records and work product are public (unless classified); however, it still requires money, time, expertise, and emotional stamina. 

For instance, in the story that follows, I was first told no, and then asked to re-open the same request. Ignoring those two options, which would have delayed the process unnecessarily, I opted to ask again for the same information—and was eventually given a six-page email, the first three of which were completely redacted (blacked out). Because I do not know the exact content of those first three pages (as it is redacted), I cannot know whether the redacting decision was correct or not in terms of the Chapter 13 Data Practices statutes. (So, there’s two lessons: 1) how to ask and keep asking; and 2) a reckoning with uncertainty as relating to sometimes potentially key data or information.) 

The Hennepin County Electronic Poll Pad Pilot Documentation

In 2025 I published a pamphlet titled Simon’s Sensors: The Secret of the iPads, which includes an expanded version of this story. 

At its core, after thinking about the rollout of electronic rosters (iPads with embedded software from KNOWiNK), which began in 2016, to well over half of Minnesota’s counties (and many of the municipalities within those counties), I aimed to learn more about the current status of the technology. 

In reviewing contracts that my home county, Hennepin County, had with the vendor, KNOWiNK, I discovered that a new pilot program had been run in 2024. At the start, I didn’t know that for sure, all I had was a proposal for a pilot program with costs, about $27,000, for a list of items, including ballot printers. 

Any election judge (poll worker) in Minnesota will be able to tell you that the current iPads cannot print ballots. But what if they could by adding a ballot printer? It seemed that KNOWiNK was already or soon to be providing this capability, if indeed what I was gathering from the proposal was accurate. 

I used data requests through the Hennepin County data portal as well as direct emails to members of the roughly 30-person election staff for Hennepin County.

Finally, after some months, it was confirmed that a pilot was run. However, since the pilot was “not completed”, it had been decided that no further information about its success or failure would be shared. Were these ballot printers even used? How many were used? (The proposal quoted five, but that was only a proposal.) If they were, where were they used? How many ballots were printed? Were any of the printed ballots cast by voters? 

I am still debating whether I should like to take further action on this, including filing suit, to force this information to be disclosed. It could be said that I was temporarily exhausted. And so, the public only learned, through my writing on same in Simon’s Sensors: The Secret of the iPads, that there remains uncertainty about the pilot and the reasons for it, including the reasons that it was not highlighted by either the county or the Office of the Secretary of State as something to look forward to.

I doubt many residents of Hennepin County were aware that ballot printers may have been used on-site in polling locations, attached to the iPads (or somehow networked to them) to enable ballots to be printed. I further doubt that many Hennepin County residents are aware that in 2024 Hennepin County violated the law for about 40 days of the 46-day absentee ballot period by not providing balanced absentee ballot boards. About 200,000 absentee ballots were processed during that period for the general election of November 5, 2024. The court offered no remedy apart from requiring Hennepin County to use balanced absentee ballot boards for the remaining few days of the absentee election timeframe. As far as I know, no one lost their job. More importantly, none of the approximately 200,000 ballots processed in violation of state statute were re-examined. 

Is such a flagrant violation of the law in Hennepin County (relating to absentee ballot processing) relevant for my inquiry into the electronic poll pad ballot printers?

The Future of Freedom of Information

Recent changes in the Minnesota legislature essentially required electronic tabulators to be used while precluding the public viewing of ballot images. Who cares? If one does not know, the ballot images are the computer picture that the tabulator (which is a computer) has taken of the ballot as it is fed or scanned in. The computer is incapable of directly reading the ballot to learn which ovals are filled in. Once it has the picture, it can then use its logic to read it—the stored results (the choices for each candidate or question) are the cast vote record for that ballot. The cast vote record concept is a standard set by the National Institute of Science and Technology (NIST) and the functionality is a requirement of electronic tabulators. The tabulator is unable to read the voter’s choices unless it has taken a picture of the ballot. Therefore, any ballot that has a cast vote record would have had to, at one point, have a picture taken of it. It is technically possible for the pictures to be deleted once the cast vote record assessment has been done. It is technically possible for both ballot images and cast vote records to be changed by the computer itself, and this has been found to have occurred (WHERE?). 

The paragraph before this one gets to the heart of basic election records in Minnesota. Every ballot must go through a tabulator in Minnesota. Every one has a picture. That picture should match the ballot and should match the tallies associated. Yet this is not part of our normal audit process and the ballot images have been made classified. If ballot images are not declassified, the government should expect to receive requests to demonstrate they are being reviewed. 

The ballot image example shows how legislative changes have made public auditing difficult, if not impossible. 
However, there are numerous other areas, just in the election system, where the public records request process could be smoothened to increase confidence in government administrators and the overall election process. 
(Have you ever done a records request for election data?) 


Amendments to Chapter 13? 

What would it take to strike the amendment to § 13… which made ballot images non-public (classified)? 
Even in the interim, as that could take years for the Legislature to change back to how it was, citizens can be asking their election staff and auditors if they are reviewing 1) the ballot images, 2) the cast vote records, and 3) the posted unoffical results, in addition to any post-election reviews that are run. There is not yet any law preventing city or county-level auditors (whether elected or appointed) from cross-checking these basic data points. Seeing as around 90% (or more) of electronic tabulators are never tested, and the election reporting software itself is also not required to be tested, the check of ballot images, cast vote records, and reported results (for at least one down ballot race), seems like a fair ask. 

Also, can’t request whether someone has accessed certain systems… see 

https://www.revisor.mn.gov/statutes/cite/13 
https://www.revisor.mn.gov/statutes/cite/13.15


Some more FOIA ideas...

See § 201.12 PROPER REGISTRATION, VERIFICATION BY MAIL; CHALLENGES. Notice that in Subdivision 2, 3, and 4, for voters who have moved within the state, moved out of state, and those who are challenged, are all set to 'inactive' within the statewide voter registration system (SVRS). It would be interesting to request a list of voters whose status has changed from 'active' to 'inactive' and back to 'active' again for for the 'moved out of state' reason, to see how many times such people have voted in recent elections. Who is the responsible authority to receive such a data request? 

Look at § 203B.12 ABSENTEE VOTER NAMES. In Subd. 8. Names of persons; accepted absentee ballots., it reads in part, "For all elections where use of the statewide voter registration system is required, the secretary of state must maintain lists of voters who have submitted absentee ballots that have been accepted, separated by method of ballot delivery." Background note: Historically, this list has not been issued to the public during the immediate three days before and after an election. What allowed the secretary of state to withhold disclosure during that pivotal election timeframe? What happens if this list is requested to be delivered to you daily for upcoming elections? 

Within a town, city, or even county level - Number of EDR (election day registrations) by precinct (that occurred IN-PERSON vs by Absentee Ballot Application <-- WILD)

Cast vote records... (since 2022, and even in 2025?, Hennepin County, receive 'no responsive data' lol) 
